Performing Phenomenology

Chapter 1 notes

Contemporary adaptation of later thought of Merleau-Ponty via Levinas and Deleuze
	- 'embodied approach to the construction of meaning'

	'a phenomenological approach manifests itself as a way of liing in the world that interates intellect with sensory experience and does not flinch from that which seems to be paradoxical or ambiguous; it can be used to construct meaning, to celebrate the mundane as well as the extraordinary, or to critique thought, attitudes, or social structures.' 



	This summer for me was about trying to get more into my body. I find i am in my head too much, that i don't listen to my body. 
		- ' what i had was a love of movement and a philosophical approach to the world that permitted me to listen to my body, to sense the world, and to ask questions and derive if not exactly answers, at least connections and fround for further questioning.' (Kozel 2)

What is 'exegesis', and what does Merleau-Ponty mean when he says 'inspired exegesis' (see Kozel 6)

"Taking inspiration from the original phenomenologists inevitably requires overlooking certain limitations as being products of different times; in the case of this book, the most problematic are narrow constructions of gender (some worrying references to women, art( a seeming limitation to painting), and technology (as uniformly hostile to bodies)." (Kozel 6)

"In my view, phenomenology can never be adopted as a doctrine because it is experiential and not prescriptive, but paradoxicallym by not being doctrinaire about phenomenology it is possible to become ever more vibrant phenomenologists." (ibid)

"Thought impacts experince just as experience impacts thought..." (kozel 9)

"...science deems itself stong by preferring to manipulate things reather than live among them, wen n face 'my body must itself be meshed into the visible wold; its power depends precisely on the fact that it has a pace from which it sees' (Merleau-Ponty 1964, 166)" (Kozel 10)

"...this situation causes tensions in our curren era of increasing convergence between the body and computers where there is a need to understand the rtistic, social, and ethicial implications of this convergence, and implement sensible and sensitive new designs for human-computer interaction. It is not about accepting the judgment of one over the over, of first-person methodologies versus third-person methodologies, but of recognizing that knowledge is constructed through the engagement between bodies and machines within the world, and this knowledge can be arrived at through a range of methodologies and voices." (11)

"With regard to its subject-matter, phenomenology is the science of the Being of entities-ontology." (Heidegger Being and Time [no page given])

THIS>>>"The idea of side stepping preconceived notions is central to phenomenology. In phenomenological method it has been called the epoché, the procedure of bracketing that means to suspend, as much as possible, bias, xpectations, or prior knowledge in order to inhabit the immediate moment of perception." (18)

>>> RELEVANT TO DATA ISSUES: "The act of forgetting, or 'non-knowing', is given a particularly dynamic quality by Gaston Bachelard as he transposes it 'immediately into a phenomenology of the poetic'" (Kozel 20)